so you've been asked to emcee your
friend or perhaps your family member's
wedding
and now you're wondering what you need
to do to make sure they have the best
reception ever first off congratulations
emceeing a wedding it's such an honor
and a privilege and something
that you should be really excited the
fact they asked you to do it means they
think
very highly of you i've had the benefit
of emceeing a few weddings in my life
and i've learned a lot through those
processes
and today i am going to share the tips
that i use
for emceeing a wedding to make sure that
it runs as smoothly as possible so my
first tip to you
is to meet with the couple beforehand
you don't want to meet with them
too much beforehand and you don't want
to leave it too late but you definitely
want to schedule a time
perhaps two months or one month before
the wedding
where you sit down with both the bride
and the groom and you chat
a little bit about what they want their
reception to look like
what the structure of the evening will
be and how you can
make sure that you are checking all of
the boxes that they are imagining
for their special day so there's a few
things you want to determine when you
meet with the couple beforehand
one of those things is who specifically
they would like you to give special
recognition to
often this includes family members such
as parents grandparents
siblings or perhaps somebody who has
traveled from
quite a ways to be there on their
special day
it's a very nice thing when you're able
to know these people's names and
identify them
on the night of the reception and
really just give them that special
recognition that they deserve
and allow everyone to know who those
people are
a second thing you may want to find out
is
whether or not the couple wants a bunch
of clinking glasses
because we know at every wedding that's
one of the first things people do is
they start clinking their glasses
for the bride and the groom to kiss and
that's nice but from time to time
especially as the drinks are flowing
people do it more and more and can
become a little bit distracting
so perhaps the couple is okay with the
clinking the first time
but then you can introduce a more fun
way
to get the bride and groom to kiss than
just the the typical standard clinking
of the glass a third thing to find out
is specific information about the
wedding party
so i love to give the bride and groom a
little bit of homework
and have them provide me with a one or
two sentence description
of all of the people who are part of
their wedding party
so that when i have the mic and i'm
announcing and i'm introducing the
wedding party
i have maybe something nice about each
of those individuals
and then maybe a little fun fact or
something that's a little bit funny
humorous
to get the laughter rolling early in the
reception
you're also going to want to find out
the general structure of the night and
whether or not
you can introduce perhaps some games or
fun things to fill some of the time
perhaps shortly after dinner before the
speeches
it's all about what the couple wants but
what you need to know as well
is that so many couples will ask you for
your advice
what do you think we should do in this
case so be prepared to provide
them with some ideas ultimately it's
their day they're going to choose what
they want
but if you can give them some
suggestions it's actually going to be
very helpful and might put their mind at
ease
for the reception you're going to want
to find out who specifically
they're planning to have give a speech
at the wedding
and then on the day of that's going to
give you a chance to connect with those
people and make sure that they're aware
when they're speaking
but it helps you build out the order of
who is speaking and when
because that is typically one of the
most important parts of a reception
a final tip for that pre-meeting with
the couple
is to find out anything that's off
limits so you never
want to go too close to that line
at such an important event like
somebody's wedding but
humor is a big part of a wedding
reception and you do want to have the
ability
to make people laugh but it's important
to check what the couple thinks about
that and what jokes are okay
and what jokes might cross the line and
so you can be open and honest
it's fun to have some surprises for them
but you don't want to surprise them
in a negative way so anything you're
unsure about
chat to the couple beforehand find out
where they're at in terms
some couples they're like oh go for it
make any sort of joke it's going to be
hilarious
other couples are more concerned uh my
family member might not
love this so much so you want to make
sure that you're respecting
them because the last thing you want to
do is embarrass them too much
on their special day all right so that
was step one meeting with the couple
one month two months before the actual
wedding and then from there on you can
pretty much just go back with
emails if there's any loose ends to tie
up
now for the pre-event the little bit of
preparation
after you've met with the couple now you
have a bit of an idea of
what the structure of the knight will
look like
my piece of advice for this is don't
wing it
a great mc does not completely wing it
when it comes to a wedding reception
sure they may make you think that
they're just doing it off the top of
their head
but great mcs actually are prepared and
planned out for the evening this means
taking notes and i've heard some people
talk about using an ipad
or perhaps a phone to read your notes
off of
that's okay especially if you're very
comfortable with those pieces of
technology
but let me warn you i have also been to
weddings
where something goes wrong the ipad
crashes
they forgot to bring a charger something
along those lines and that's the last
thing you want to do especially if you
really need those notes
you do not want to have a disaster
nothing wrong with a good old piece of
paper
or cue cards are even better they're
small they're not intrusive
and they are things that you can
reference throughout the evening now
with that said i encourage you to take
notes but don't take too many notes
what i mean by that is you do not want
to write out word for word all of the
things you're going to talk about
throughout the night
sure some things like the wedding party
introduction you might want those few
sentences word for word
but other than that you don't want
everything written out word for word
for example if there are special
instructions you need to give about
the cutting of the cake you don't want
to write those out word for word just
write cutting of the cake and then in
your practice
you'll know what you're going to talk
about for that section
so your notes should be one or two words
that identify the thing that you're
going to talk about
but you should not write everything out
perfectly word for word because then
you're going to be standing up there
with a sheet of paper
with your head buried and that does not
make for
a great emcee before the wedding day you
also want to practice so
don't just go through this the first
time when you're in front of everyone
make sure you run through it you can
always record yourself to see how it
goes you can practice a few
key parts of the evening in front of a
friend or a family member that you trust
to give you some feedback
of what you're doing well and what
you're not but it is so important to
practice before you get to the actual
night
it's just going to give you all the more
confidence because you've done this a
few times already
so now it's no big deal it's just in
front of a few more people
and the final tip before we jump into
the actual day of is you want to dress
the part
so as mc you need to make sure that you
are dressed if you're a male
in a suit and a tie or perhaps a bow tie
or suspenders
and if you're a female again all of the
female dress code to make sure that you
are at a certain level because you don't
want to show up
casually in jeans or something along
those lines
you are a really big part of that
wedding day so you want to make sure
that you are dressed appropriately
all right so now you've made it to the
day of you've done all your homework you
are prepared
now you show up on the day of there are
a few things you want to do
first off for the reception you want to
make sure that you show up well enough
in advance that you can get totally
prepared
if you have anything like slides or
any sort of props or anything like that
you want to make sure you're able to set
those up before most people
have arrived you also want to connect
with a few key people
for example if the couple has a dj it is
so important to get to know who the dj
is
oftentimes there's a little bit of
crossover in terms of responsibilities
between the dj and the mc
so you want to have a quick conversation
with that person and make sure the two
of you
are on the same page you'll also want to
meet with the wedding day
of coordinator if this couple happens to
have one
again that person's responsibility is to
make sure the day
runs smoothly so you want to connect
with them and understand
what their expectations of you are as
well
to make sure both of you are on the same
page and finally one of the big aspects
of a reception is the dinner so in some
weddings you may have to talk to the
cooks
or whoever is organizing in charge of
the meal
you want to make sure that your timing
matches up
what they have prepared because they're
putting a lot of effort into that meal
and you want to make sure that your
timing matches so
when the meal is ready to go you are
getting people up and getting them fed
because they'll be
hungry after a big day of wedding and
drinking and all of the things that go
into it so you want to make sure that
the timing runs smoothly throughout
so have all of those conversations with
the people you need to talk to
before the guests start arriving if the
guests get there a little bit early
go over introduce yourself to them be
really friendly
all the little things that sometimes we
forget to do we have so many things on
our mind make sure you're smiling
high energy because that is going to
translate and you're going to bring that
to the microphone
once you introduce the wedding party and
that is the big part of most receptions
is the
introduction of the wedding party so
again this is something you want to chat
with the bride and groom about
coordinate with the dj because most
weddings have a great grand
entrance where you introduce the couple
for the first time as well as all the
wedding party members maybe they do a
little dance as they come in
i don't know what that was but make sure
that you do a great job and you're high
energy as you're announcing those names
make sure the audience knows ladies and
gentlemen welcome
john and sarah something like that have
your voice
be loud enough emphatic enough because
that is going to set the tone for the
evening
now after the head table and the bride
and groom
have sat down so often people start
clinking the glasses so this is where
it's important
to know what the bride and groom expect
i always love to let that happen once so
somebody clinks the glasses and then i
turn to the bride and groom and say
you two know what that means and they do
the kiss but if they wanted something
different such as a game or maybe
a couple has to come up and duplicate
the same kiss that
the bride and groom does or they have to
sing lyrics from a love song
usually there's some way of making it a
little more fun to get the bride and
groom to kiss
and plus it's not the clinking of
glasses all night which can get a little
bit
annoying for any of you who have been to
weddings like that the next part you're
going to want to make sure that you
introduce yourself let everyone know who
you are
what your relation to the bride and
groom is
and that you are so honored to be there
on their special day
and that you're really excited about the
evening this is also an opportunity
if you have a little short story that's
maybe something that's pretty funny
this is your chance to tell that to get
the audience laughing
early one of the first questions in
everyone's mind who's attending a
reception is
is the emcee gonna be good is he or she
going to actually be
funny and if you can get them laughing
early
it's going to relax everyone in the
crowd they're gonna know that they're in
for a good night
but it also relaxes you it gives you a
form of confidence when you can get
the audience or everyone in attendance
laughing
it is such a confidence booster and it's
going to make
the rest of the night enjoyable rather
than stressful
my advice though if you're telling a
story about yourself keep it short
right you don't want to go on and tell a
10 minute story
it's not speeches time right but if you
can tell something that
maybe is two or three minutes and it's a
great
story that you know is sure to get
laughs that is a good way to introduce
yourself
and like i say get that humor going
right away
next off you're going to want to make
sure to recognize
the wedding party who are these people
and this is where the homework part came
in handy the bride and groom have
written you out descriptions so you're
simply going to read off
and do some practice so you don't have
to just be staring at your notes when
you read those off
but you can have them with you in case
you forget word for word
how the bride and groom described each
of these people
now for most receptions the last portion
of the evening and again
every reception is different so it might
not be this way for the one you are
emceeing
but oftentimes the speeches are the way
that the evening concludes before of
course you get into cutting the cake
and the dance and all of those sorts of
things but speeches are typically
one of the last portions that you will
be responsible for
as mc now you want to make sure that you
talk to the speakers beforehand so for
example the best man
the maid of honor perhaps the parents
and let them know
the order that they're going to be going
in it allows them to be mentally
prepared for their speech
and you want to set them up for success
so when you are announcing the speaker
make sure after you announce that person
and you put up the mic that you start
clapping for them
as they come up to the podium or in
front
of the crowd it helps build their
confidence there's something about the
clapping right before you
give a speech that helps just get you
ready and fired up for delivering that
speech
likewise after the speech is done make
sure that you take the mic back and say
hey
let's give it up for sally what a great
speech sally and again
start clapping for them get that
clapping going
before and after the speech to help out
the speakers
now a couple of the last final tips for
you as mc
tip number one don't get drunk
i know that might seem obvious or maybe
it doesn't seem obvious and you're
saying wait a second
you can get drunk just get drunk after
your
mc i'm not saying you can't drink
but you want to limit it because you
need to be
on point you need to be able to really
quarterback
that reception and there's a lot riding
on
you doing a great job what you're going
to do but if you get drunk
a lot of people won't love that fact of
it they will
not appreciate that you're taking the
role seriously so you can
have a drink or two but definitely don't
get drunk until
after your mc responsibility is finished
the last tip i would give
and this has been true for every wedding
i have emceed
that is to expect the unexpected there
is
always going to be things that come up
on a wedding day
that you did not plan for that is just
the way it is
because with weddings with the fence
things happen
that nobody could have predicted but
your ability to roll with the punches
and say yeah that's no problem we'll
switch that up we'll change the order of
this
dinner's ready early great we'll get
everyone fed early
no problem at all that's going to relax
everyone else especially the bride and
groom as far as they're concerned the
evening should feel like it's going
flawless you don't want to have anyone
stressed out or concerned
so by you being calm and confident and
prepared
you're going to help make the day
phenomenal
i hope this video has been helpful i
would ask you comment below
are there specific questions you have
about the big day i'd love to jump in
those comments and start communicating
with all of you
about what you're thinking leading up to
the wedding that you're going to be
emceeing
did i miss any tips feel free to list
them below i would also ask you
subscribe to my channel so i'm all about
communication
and impactful communication and i have a
ton of video content
and more on the way which is focusing on
great communicators finally if you liked
this video then actually like it give it
that thumbs up
you don't have to smash the thumbs up
but just you know gently press
thumbs up i really appreciate it it
helps me out on youtube
thank you so much for watching this
video and good luck you're going to
crush it as
mc